PXB-2676 Document page tracking feature in 8.0.27 (#1237)
percona/percona-xtrabackup: storage/innobase/xtrabackup/doc/source/advanced/page_tracking.rst

.. _page_tracking:

====================================
Page Tracking for Incremental Backup 
====================================

This feature is *tech preview* quality.

Percona XtraBackup 8.0.27 adds support for the page tracking functionality for `incremental backup <https://www.percona.com/doc/percona-xtrabackup/8.0/backup_scenarios/incremental_backup.html>`__ . 

> To create an incremental backup with page tracking, Percona XtraBackup uses the mysqlbackup component. This component looks in the InnoDB data files for pages that have been modified since the last backup and copies only those changed pages.

Reviewer: Combine the sentences into one paragraph.

> This operation removes the need to scan all of the pages in the database. If the number of changed pages is not over 50%, the page tracking feature can improve the speed of incremental backups.

Reviewer: Combine these two sentences into one paragraph.

Author: Done

Install the component
---------------------

To start using the page tracking functionality, do the following steps:

1. Install the mysqlbackup component and enable it on the server: 

  .. code-block:: bash

     INSTALL COMPONENT "file://component_mysqlbackup";

2. Check whether the mysqlbackup component is installed succesfuly:

  .. code-block:: bash

     SELECT COUNT(1) FROM mysql.component WHERE component_urn='file://component_mysqlbackup';

Using the page tracking
-----------------------

> 1. mysqlbackup processes all the tracked pages in memory. The component must be started with enough memory. Otherwise, the component throws an error and exits. For more information see the `MySQL documentation <https://dev.mysql.com/doc/mysql-enterprise-backup/8.0/en/mysqlbackup.incremental.html#mysqlbackup.page-tracking.incremental>`__ .

Reviewer: redo without numbered steps.

Author: Fixed

2. After the mysqlbackup component is loaded and active on the server, start page tracking:

  .. code-block:: bash

     SELECT mysqlbackup_page_track_set(true);

> 3. When you enable page tracking, it creates a file under the server's datadir to collect data about changed pages. This file is growing until you stop the page tracking. If you stop the server and then restart it, page tracking will create a new file but will also keep the old one. The old file will continue growing until you stop the page tracking explicitly.

Reviewer: This file grows
page tracking creates a new file but also keeps
The old file continues to grow

Author: fixed

> 3. When you enable page tracking, it creates a file under the server's datadir to collect data about changed pages. This file is growing until you stop the page tracking. If you stop the server and then restart it, page tracking will create a new file but will also keep the old one. The old file will continue growing until you stop the page tracking explicitly.

Reviewer: Remove step

Author: Fixed

> To purge old page tracking data, do the following steps:

Reviewer: When should I purge?

Author: Updated

  .. code-block:: bash

     SELECT mysqlbackup_page_track_set(false);
     SELECT mysqlbackup_page_track_purge_up_to(9223372036854775807);
     /* Specify the LSN up to which you want to purge page tracking data. 9223372036854775807 is the highest possible LSN which purges all page tracking files.*/
     SELECT mysqlbackup_page_track_set(true);
   

> 3. Enable the page tracking functionality for the full and incremental backups with the following option:  

Reviewer: Remove numbered step.
You have two step 3 by the way.

Author: Fixed

``--page-tracking``

.. note::

   To use the page tracking option, you must have the `Backup_ADMIN <https://docs.oracle.com/cd/E17952_01/mysql-enterprise-backup-8.0-en/mysqlbackup.privileges.html>`__ privileges.

The option has the following benefits:

* Resets page tracking to the start of the backup. This reset allows the next incremental backup to use page tracking.

* Allows the use of page tracking for an incremental backup if the page tracking data is available from the backup's start checkpoint LSN.

> If the server page flushing rate is low or it uses a very big buffer pool, you can start page tracking before creating the first backup. Thus, you ensure that page tracking LSN is more than the checkpoint LSN of the server.

Reviewer: This sentence should be near the beginning of the section, when you are talking about starting page tracking.
Remove the "very" - what's the difference between a big buffer pool and a very big buffer pool?

Author: Moved

4. To check the LSN value starting from which changed pages are tracked, use the following option:

  .. code-block:: bash

     SELECT mysqlbackup_page_track_get_start_lsn();

After enabling the functionality, the next incremental backup finds changed pages using page tracking.

Stop page tracking
------------------

If you need to stop page tracking, use the following option:

  .. code-block:: bash

     SELECT mysqlbackup_page_track_set(false);

> First backup using page tracking

Reviewer: Move this to the beginning of the section. This is information I would need to know.

.. _page_tracking:

=======================================
Incremental backup using page tracking
=======================================

This feature is *tech preview* quality.

Percona XtraBackup 8.0.27 adds support for the page tracking functionality for `incremental backup <https://www.percona.com/doc/percona-xtrabackup/8.0/backup_scenarios/incremental_backup.html>`__ . 

> To create an incremental backup with page tracking, Percona XtraBackup (PXB) uses the MySQL mysqlbackup component. This component looks in the InnoDB data files for pages that have been modified since the last backup and stores these pages in a file under the server's datadir. Then PXB copies only those changed pages. This operation removes the need to scan all of the pages in the database. If the majority of pages have not been modified, the page tracking feature can improve the speed of incremental backups.

Reviewer: Looks great but replace any PXB abbreviation with **Percona XtraBackup**

Author: fixed

> To create an incremental backup with page tracking, Percona XtraBackup uses the MySQL mysqlbackup component. This component looks in the InnoDB data files for pages that have been modified since the last backup and stores these pages in a file under the server's datadir. Then Percona XtraBackup copies only those changed pages. This operation removes the need to scan all of the pages in the database. If the majority of pages have not been modified, the page tracking feature can improve the speed of incremental backups.

Reviewer 2: something like this
```suggestion
To create an incremental backup with page tracking, Percona XtraBackup uses the MySQL mysqlbackup component. This component provides list of space_id and pages modified from last backup So Percona XtraBackup copies only those pages. This operation removes the need to scan all of the pages in the database. If the majority of pages have not been modified, the page tracking feature can improve the speed of incremental backups.
```

Author: Updated

Install the component
---------------------

To start using the page tracking functionality, do the following steps:

1. Install the mysqlbackup component and enable it on the server: 

  .. code-block:: mysql

     $ INSTALL COMPONENT "file://component_mysqlbackup";

2. Check whether the mysqlbackup component is installed succesfuly:

  .. code-block:: bash

     SELECT COUNT(1) FROM mysql.component WHERE component_urn='file://component_mysqlbackup';

> Start page tracking

Reviewer 2: Plese move this section after the Using page-tracking with the heading 
Start page tracking manually
```suggestion

```

Author: fixed

-------------------

After the mysqlbackup component is loaded and active on the server, start the page tracking:

  .. code-block:: mysql

     $ SELECT mysqlbackup_page_track_set(true);

.. note::

>    Percona XtraBackup processes all the tracked pages in memory. If Percona XtraBackup does not have enough available memory to process all the tracked pages, Percona XtraBackup throws an error and exits. For example, if an incremental backup uses 200GB, Percona XtraBackup can additionally use about 100MB of memory to store the page tracking data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Percona XtraBackup processes list of all the tracked pages in memory. If Percona XtraBackup does not have enough available memory to process  list of all the tracked pages, Percona XtraBackup throws an error and exits. For example, if an incremental backup uses 200GB, Percona XtraBackup can additionally use about 100MB of memory to store the page tracking data.
```

Reviewer 2: moves this notes at the end. just before the known issue.

Reviewer: In Documentation, we have different standards on how to structure the document.

Author: I've moved this note to the Using page tracking section according to the doc structure.

The option has the following benefits:

* Resets page tracking to the start of the backup. This reset allows the next incremental backup to use page tracking.

* Allows the use of page tracking for an incremental backup if the page tracking data is available from the backup's start checkpoint LSN.

An example of creating a full backup using the ``--page-tracking`` option.

  .. code-block:: bash

     xtrabackup --backup --target-dir=$FULL_BACK --page-tracking

An example of creating an incremental backup using the ``--page-tracking`` option.
  
  .. code-block:: bash

     xtrabackup --backup --target-dir=$INC_BACKUP  --incremental-basedir=$FULL_BACKUP --page-tracking

After enabling the functionality, the next incremental backup finds changed pages using page tracking.

.. note::

   For the very first full backup using page tracking, Percona XtraBackup may have a delay. The following is an example of the message you can receive: 

   .. code-block:: bash

     xtrabackup: pagetracking: Sleeping for 1 second, waiting for checkpoint lsn 17852922 / 
     to reach to page tracking start lsn 21353759

>    You can avoid this delay by enabling page tracking before creating the first backup. Thus, you ensure that page tracking log sequence number (LSN) is more than the checkpoint LSN of the server.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   You can avoid this delay by enabling page tracking before creating the first backup. Thus, you ensure that page tracking log sequence number (LSN) is more than the checkpoint LSN of the server.
   
 Start page tracking 
   After the mysqlbackup component is loaded and active on the server, to manually start the page tracking:

   .. code-block:: mysql

      $ SELECT mysqlbackup_page_track_set(true);
   
```

Author: Fixed

.. _page_tracking:

====================================

> Page Tracking for Incremental Backup 

Reviewer 2: Incremental backup using Page tracking

Author: Updated

====================================

This feature is *tech preview* quality.

Percona XtraBackup 8.0.27 adds support for the page tracking functionality for `incremental backup <https://www.percona.com/doc/percona-xtrabackup/8.0/backup_scenarios/incremental_backup.html>`__ . 

> To create an incremental backup with page tracking, Percona XtraBackup (PXB) uses the MySQL mysqlbackup component. This component looks in the InnoDB data files for pages that have been modified since the last backup and copies only those changed pages. This operation removes the need to scan all of the pages in the database. If the number of changed pages is not over 50%, the page tracking feature can improve the speed of incremental backups.

Reviewer 2: This component provide the list of modified pages since the last backup so PXB can copy only those pages and avoid the the full scan of all the pages in the database.

Remove this number. we can place this at later section. This is not a concrete number 50%

Reviewer: Does the component provide a list? According to other documentation, the list of changed pages is stored in the datadir and is not stored in the component.

Author: updated

Install the component
---------------------

To start using the page tracking functionality, do the following steps:

1. Install the mysqlbackup component and enable it on the server: 

>   .. code-block:: bash

Reviewer: code-block:: mysql

>      INSTALL COMPONENT "file://component_mysqlbackup";

Reviewer: mysql>

2. Check whether the mysqlbackup component is installed succesfuly:

  .. code-block:: bash

     SELECT COUNT(1) FROM mysql.component WHERE component_urn='file://component_mysqlbackup';

.. note::

>    The mysqlbackup component processes all the tracked pages in memory. If the component does not have enough available memory to process all the tracked pages, the component throws an error and exits. For example, if an incremental backup uses 200GB, the component can additionally use about 100MB of memory to store the page tracking data.

Reviewer 2: replace mysql backup component with PXB.  Also move this section to the end.

Reviewer: The section should stay before the examples. The user should know this information before they use the option.

Author: Updated

Using page tracking
-------------------

> If the server page flushing rate is low or it uses a big buffer pool, you can start page tracking before creating the first backup. Thus, you ensure that page tracking log sequence number (LSN) is more than the checkpoint LSN of the server.

Reviewer 2: In the usage section
first mention we can start page tracking on server during the full or incremental  backup with option --page-tracking  provide an example. 
and then give example of how to take incremental backup using page-tracking

The delay section we can add in note. Not so important for most of users.

Author: I provide the mentioned info in the Enable page tracking section.

For the very first full backup using page tracking, PXB may have a delay. The following is an example of the message you can receive:
   
  .. code-block:: bash

     xtrabackup: pagetracking: Sleeping for 1 second, waiting for checkpoint lsn 17852922 to reach to page tracking start lsn 21353759
   
This delay ensures that the page tracking start LSN is more than the backup end checkpoint LSN which is required for the next incremental backup.

.. note::

   To use the page tracking options, you must have the `Backup_ADMIN <https://docs.oracle.com/cd/E17952_01/mysql-enterprise-backup-8.0-en/mysqlbackup.privileges.html>`__ privileges.

Start page tracking
-------------------

> 

Reviewer 2: PXB can start the page-tracking by itself. So we do need to mention it. 
But just in note section we can club this that delay section.

Author: I provide the mentioned info in the Enable page tracking section.

Reviewer 2: It would be good if we can move this section after the Enable page tracking.

After the mysqlbackup component is loaded and active on the server, start the page tracking:

>   .. code-block:: bash

Reviewer: code-block:: mysql

Author: Updated

>      SELECT mysqlbackup_page_track_set(true);

Reviewer: mysql>

Author: Updated

When you start page tracking, it creates a file under the server's datadir to collect data about changed pages. This file grows until you stop the page tracking. If you stop the server and then restart it, page tracking creates a new file but also keeps the old one. The old file continues to grow until you stop the page tracking explicitly.

To purge old page tracking data that you no longer need, do the following steps:

  .. code-block:: bash

     SELECT mysqlbackup_page_track_set(false);
     SELECT mysqlbackup_page_track_purge_up_to(9223372036854775807);
     /* Specify the LSN up to which you want to purge page tracking data. 9223372036854775807 is the highest possible LSN which purges all page tracking files.*/
     SELECT mysqlbackup_page_track_set(true);

Enable page tracking
--------------------

Enable the page tracking functionality for the full and incremental backups with the ``--page-tracking`` option.

An example of enabling full backup.

  .. code-block:: bash

     xtrabackup --backup --target-dir=$FULL_BACK --page-tracking

> An example of enabling incremental backup.

Reviewer 2: replace enabling with how to take incremental backup using page-tracking

Author: Updated

To create an incremental backup with page tracking, Percona XtraBackup (PXB) uses the MySQL mysqlbackup component. This component looks in the InnoDB data files for pages that have been modified since the last backup and stores these pages in a file under the server's datadir. Then PXB copies only those changed pages. This operation removes the need to scan all of the pages in the database. If the majority of pages have not been modified, the page tracking feature can improve the speed of incremental backups.

Install the component
---------------------

To start using the page tracking functionality, do the following steps:

1. Install the mysqlbackup component and enable it on the server: 

  .. code-block:: mysql

     $ INSTALL COMPONENT "file://component_mysqlbackup";

2. Check whether the mysqlbackup component is installed succesfuly:

  .. code-block:: bash

     SELECT COUNT(1) FROM mysql.component WHERE component_urn='file://component_mysqlbackup';

Using page tracking
-------------------

> If the server page flushing rate is low or it uses a big buffer pool, you can start page tracking before creating the first backup. Thus, you ensure that page tracking log sequence number (LSN) is more than the checkpoint LSN of the server.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

Author: updated

.. note::

   To use the page tracking options, you must have the `Backup_ADMIN <https://docs.oracle.com/cd/E17952_01/mysql-enterprise-backup-8.0-en/mysqlbackup.privileges.html>`__ privileges.

Start page tracking
-------------------

After the mysqlbackup component is loaded and active on the server, start the page tracking:

  .. code-block:: mysql

     $ SELECT mysqlbackup_page_track_set(true);

.. note::

   PXB processes all the tracked pages in memory. If PXB does not have enough available memory to process all the tracked pages, PXB throws an error and exits. For example, if an incremental backup uses 200GB, PXB can additionally use about 100MB of memory to store the page tracking data.

> Enable page tracking

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Usage of page tracking
```

Author: updated

The option has the following benefits:

* Resets page tracking to the start of the backup. This reset allows the next incremental backup to use page tracking.

* Allows the use of page tracking for an incremental backup if the page tracking data is available from the backup's start checkpoint LSN.

An example of creating a full backup using the ``--page-tracking`` option.

  .. code-block:: bash

     xtrabackup --backup --target-dir=$FULL_BACK --page-tracking

An example of creating an incremental backup using the ``--page-tracking`` option.
  
  .. code-block:: bash

     xtrabackup --backup --target-dir=$INC_BACKUP  --incremental-basedir=$FULL_BACKUP --page-tracking

After enabling the functionality, the next incremental backup finds changed pages using page tracking.

.. note::

   For the very first full backup using page tracking, PXB may have a delay. The following is an example of the message you can receive: 

   .. code-block:: bash

     xtrabackup: pagetracking: Sleeping for 1 second, waiting for checkpoint lsn 17852922 / 
     to reach to page tracking start lsn 21353759
   

>    This delay ensures that the page tracking start LSN is more than the backup end checkpoint LSN which is required for the next incremental backup.

Reviewer 2: Something like
```suggestion
   This delay ensures that the page tracking start LSN is more than the backup end checkpoint LSN which is required for the next incremental backup.
  To avoid this delay, you can start page tracking before creating the first backup. Thus, you ensure that page tracking log sequence number (LSN) is more than the checkpoint LSN of the server.
  
 Manually start page tracking
  After the mysqlbackup component is loaded and active on the server, start the page tracking:

   .. code-block:: mysql

      $ SELECT mysqlbackup_page_track_set(true);
```

Author: updated

Check the LSN value 
-------------------

Check the LSN value starting from which changed pages are tracked with the following option:

  .. code-block:: mysql

     $ SELECT mysqlbackup_page_track_get_start_lsn();

Stop page tracking
------------------

If you need to stop page tracking, use the following option:

  .. code-block:: mysql

     $ SELECT mysqlbackup_page_track_set(false);

Purge page tracking data
----------------------------

When you start page tracking, it creates a file under the server's datadir to collect data about changed pages. This file grows until you stop the page tracking. If you stop the server and then restart it, page tracking creates a new file but also keeps the old one. The old file continues to grow until you stop the page tracking explicitly.

> To purge page tracking data, do the following steps:

Reviewer: Missing a "the"
To purge the page

Author: Fixed

.. _page_tracking:

====================================
Page Tracking for Incremental Backup 
====================================

> As of 8.0.18, the MySQL supports the page tracking functionality for `incremental backup <https://www.percona.com/doc/percona-xtrabackup/8.0/backup_scenarios/incremental_backup.html>`__ . 

Reviewer: 8.0.27

Author: Fixed

> As of 8.0.18, the MySQL supports the page tracking functionality for `incremental backup <https://www.percona.com/doc/percona-xtrabackup/8.0/backup_scenarios/incremental_backup.html>`__ . 

Reviewer: *Percona XtraBackup*

Author: Fixed

> To create an incremental backup the |mysqlbackup| looks for pages that have been modified since the last backup in the InnoDB data files and copies only changed pages. Since there is no need to scan all the pages in the database, the page tracking makes the incremental backup faster if the number of changed pages is not big.

Reviewer: Percona XtraBackup

  .. code-block:: bash

     INSTALL COMPONENT "file://component_mysqlbackup";

2. Check whether the |mysqlbackup| component is installed succesfuly:

  .. code-block:: bash

     SELECT COUNT(1) FROM mysql.component WHERE  component_urn='file://component_mysqlbackup';

Usage
-----

After the |component_mysqlbackup| is loaded and active on the server, enable the page tracking functionality for the full and incremental backups using the following option:  

``--page-tracking``

It serves the dual purpose:

* Reset page tracking at the start of the backup so that the next incremental backup can use page tracking.

* Use page tracking for incremental backup if page tracking data is available from the backup start checkpoint LSN.

Once the page tracking is enabled, the next incremental backup will use page tracking to find changed pages.

You can check the LSN value starting from which changed pages have been tracked using the following option:

  .. code-block:: bash

     SELECT mysqlbackup_page_track_get_start_lsn();

To stop page tracking use the following option:

  .. code-block:: bash

     SELECT mysqlbackup_page_track_set(false);

.. note::

>    To use the aforementioned options for page tracking, run the ``BACKUP_ADMIN`` privilege.

Reviewer: This information (privileges) should be in the beginning instead of after the user has tried the function.

Author: Fixed

.. _page_tracking:

====================================
Page Tracking for Incremental Backup 
====================================

This feature is *tech preview* quality.

Percona XtraBackup 8.0.27 adds support for the page tracking functionality for `incremental backup <https://www.percona.com/doc/percona-xtrabackup/8.0/backup_scenarios/incremental_backup.html>`__ . 

> To create an incremental backup using page tracking, the *mysqlbackup* looks for pages that have been modified since the last backup in the InnoDB data files and copies only changed pages. 

Reviewer 2: Can you add something like this 
PXB, with the page tracking feature, uses the mysqlbackup component of MySQL to retrieve the modified pages for the incremental backup.

Author: Updated

2. Check whether the *mysqlbackup* component is installed succesfuly:

  .. code-block:: bash

     SELECT COUNT(1) FROM mysql.component WHERE component_urn='file://component_mysqlbackup';

Using the page tracking
-----------------------

.. note::

   To use the following options for page tracking, run the ``BACKUP_ADMIN`` privilege.

1. After the *component_mysqlbackup* is loaded and active on the server, start page tracking:

  .. code-block:: bash

     SELECT mysqlbackup_page_track_set(true);

2. Enable the page tracking functionality for the full and incremental backups with the following option:  

``--page-tracking``

It serves the dual purpose:

* Reset page tracking at the start of the backup so that the next incremental backup can use page tracking.

* Use page tracking for incremental backup if page tracking data is available from the backup start checkpoint LSN.

3. To check the LSN value starting from which changed pages are tracked, use the following option:

  .. code-block:: bash

     SELECT mysqlbackup_page_track_get_start_lsn();

Once the page tracking is enabled, the next incremental backup will use page tracking to find changed pages.

> First backup using page tracking

Reviewer 2: just adding it as a note would be sufficient.

Author: Updated

This delay is required to ensure that the page tracking start LSN is more than the backup end checkpoint LSN which is required for the next incremental backup. If the server page flushing rate is low or it uses a very big buffer pool, you can start page tracking before creating the first backup. Thus, you ensure that page tracking LSN is more than the checkpoint LSN of the server. It is required for the first backup only.

Uninstall the *mysqlbackup* component
-------------------------------------

If you need to uninstall the *mysqlbackup* component, use the following option:

  .. code-block:: bash

     UNINSTALL COMPONENT "file://component_mysqlbackup"

Stop page tracking
------------------

If you need to stop page tracking, use the following option:

  .. code-block:: bash

     SELECT mysqlbackup_page_track_set(false);

Known issues
------------

1. If the index is built in place using an exclusive algorithm and then is added to a table after the last LSN checkpoint, you may get a bad incremental backup using page tracking. Find more details in `PS-8032 <https://jira.percona.com/browse/PS-8032>`__ .

> 2. The server internally generates a little data to maintain the page tracking data. You can purge this data before a full backup. Find more details in `Bug#105406 <https://bugs.mysql.com/bug.php?id=105406>`__ .

Reviewer 2: Upstream has release the purge interface. so I think better to move this to other section. 
We also need to advice user how to purge. 

commit 0b524f8ba50d6b700db9727d83bdcbebeef79221
Author: Ingo Struewing <Ingo.Struewing@oracle.com>
Date:   Thu Nov 18 11:13:04 2021 +0100

    Bug#33529452 - MySQLbackup component doesn't have purge interface

Author: fixed
